Title: Release notes
Description: Release notes for Microsoft Release Management in VSO and TFS 2015
ms.TocTitle: Release notes
ms.ContentId: 1872D1B0-0514-4FD2-9BFB-DF9538BF93DF

# Release notes

[!INCLUDE [preview-header-shared](../_shared/preview-header-shared.md)]

**In this topic**:

 * [What's new?](#whatsnew) 
 * [Known issues](#knownissues)
 * [Help and support](#help)
 
[!INCLUDE [back-to-index-shared](../_shared/back-to-index-shared.md)]

<a name="whatsnew"></a>
## What's new?

This version of Release Management contains the following new features.

### Build / Release integration

 * **Consume Build artifacts more easily**. Build (and build artifacts) define 
   the packages that will be deployed. However, the build selection was
   not prominently exposed to the users. Now the way that builds are
   exposed has been simplified, making it easier to select a build.

 * **Select artifacts more easily**. A new file picker has been introduced
   for selecting files from the artifact folder structure when setting the
   parameters for tasks. This is one of the features most requested 
   by early users.
 
### Administration

 * **Agent pool queues**. The Release Management agent pools
   now use queues. You can use queues to assign agent pools to 
   project-level or collection-level groups in order to manage security.

### Release definitions and releases

 * **Releases list page**. The page listing all releases in now paginated,
   which improves performance and makes administration and monitoring easier.

 * **Delete release definitions**. Users can now delete their release 
   definitions and the associated releases. This can be controlled by an
   administrator who assigns delete permisison.

 * **Compare and view configuration variables**. Users can now view all of
   the configuration variables parameters across environments using the
   Variables page.

### Approvals and approvers

 * **Reassign approvals**. Instead of approving or rejecting an approval 
   request, approvers can now re-assign the approval to another user or
   group.

 * **Notification emails**. Release Management now sends email messages to 
   approvers when an approval is pending, and to environment owners
   when the deployment to an environment has completed.

### Differences between this version and the Release Management Tools (server and client) for VS 2015 and TFS

This version of Release Management takes some of the best ideas from 
the previous version, but has been implemented from the ground-up in 
a new architecture that supports:

 * **Fewer concepts**. "Release Paths" and "Release Templates" have been 
   replaced by a single concept called ***release definitions***. 
   Using release definitions, you can define both the "path" (the 
   series of environments and approvals that your applications needs 
   to go through) as well as the "template" (the sequence of automation 
   steps that should be executed in each environment). Furthermore, the 
   concepts of "stages" and "environments" have been combined into a 
   single concept named ***environments***.

 * **Team projects**. The RELEASE hub is integrated into Team projects. 
   However, you can still deploy builds that are generated by other team 
   projects.

 * **REST APIs**. The service now exposes REST APIs that you can use to 
   integrate with your own workflows. These APIs are similar to those 
   exposed by others services in VSO.

 * **Distributed Tasks**. The previous version of Release Management was 
   based on XAML workflows and tasks that were hard to extend and maintain. 
   This version is based on the same distributed task execution 
   infrastructure as the BUILD service. All the tasks in your Build and 
   Release Management flows are executed on a pool of agents, which monitor 
   your VSO account for pending tasks. The communication from the agent to 
   VSO is one-way over HTTPS.

 * **Integrated security**. The security infrastructure of Release Management is 
   different from the previous version in that it does not manage its own 
   groups and permissions. New permissions are introduced in VSO for 
   Release Management, such as "Create release definitions", "Create 
   releases", and "Manage approvers". Default values for these permissions 
   are set for specific groups at the team project level. These permissions 
   can then be overridden for the groups or individual users, for a 
   specific release definition or for a specific environment within a 
   release definition.

<!--
<a name="whatscoming"></a>
## What's coming?

New features you can expect to see introduced into Release Management
in forthcoming releases include:

-->

<a name="knownissues"></a>
## Known issues

The following are known issues in the current version of Release Management: 

### XAML and vNext build definitions with same name

If there is a XAML-based build definition and vNext build definition with same name, 
and both are associated with a release definition, Release Management may use the 
artifacts from the XAML-based definition instead of the vNext definition.

**Workaround**: Rename one of the definitions. To avoid changing the release definition, 
change the name of the XAML-based build definition.

### Multiple artifacts from the same vNext build used in a release

If a build definition publishes artifacts "MyArtifact" and "Drop" in that 
order, any release definition that references an artifact of this build definition 
will download only "MyArtifact" to the agent 
(as `_work\{hash-of-definition}\artifactname\MyArtifact\...`). 
There is no way to refer to the second artifact named "Drop".

**Workaround**: Reorder the artifacts in the build definition so that the artifact
you want to be downloaded to the agent is the first one to be published.

_**Note**: Currently there is an issue in that Release Management can work with only
one build artifact or the first build artifact._

### Artifact published through vNext build is named something other than "drop"

If a build definition publishes a single artifact named "MyArtifact", a release
definition that references an artifact of this build definition downloads 
MyArtifact2 to the agent 
as `_work\{hash-of-definition}\artifactname\MyArtifact\...`. The 
appropriate script or file locations must be entered in this case.

**Workaround**: Rename the artifact to "drop" to force it to be downloaded as 
`_work\{hash of definition}\artifactname\...`

### The variable "ComputerName" is passed to a PowerShell task as an argument

The value of the variable named "ComputerName" is replaced with the name of the 
agent being used.

**Workaround**: Rename the variable to something else, such as "CompName".

<a name="help"></a>
[!INCLUDE [help-support-shared](../_shared/help-support-shared.md)]

[!INCLUDE [back-to-index-shared](../_shared/back-to-index-shared.md)]
